This is a homophobic mass murder.
We must face this reality,
because it explains why so many people feel concerned, why so many people are afraid.
Homophobia is a hidden part of society, but it is a global reality.
It is often hidden behind rules and good manners in every society.
I think it's very important to demonstrate that we stand with the victims whenever a homophobic crime occurs,
and to show that we know why these people were killed.
They were not killed because of bad luck. They were killed because they were homosexuals,
but homosexuality is not a choice, it is a sexual orientation that people have, a human characteristic among others.
Consequently, accepting homosexuality in its fullest sense is accepting otherness.
There's not just one way to be human, there are lots of ways.
This one is as fundamental in its differences as are gender differences.
These moments in which we show that we are a human community are important.
Journalist: Do you think that the homophobia that manifested itself during the demonstrations against gay marriage could lead to similar events?
JLM: This moment was a bit of an irruption, but we should not give it more importance than it really had.
These protesters were not murderers.
But they clearly showed that they were as blind as people who are crazy enough to commit murders.
They just can't accept human diversity.
But those protesters or politicians who sometimes express these opinions are just trying to go further on this issue than in the USA.
I was told that more than 200 homophobic bills  had been presented in Congress,
so there's a sort of atmosphere that makes people think it is normal to insult and smear a part of the population because of their sexual orientation.
It is as stupid as saying that bald, fair-haired, dark-haired people or whatnot are undesirable human beings.
These are just ways of being human beings.
We really have to be on the lookout, because these behaviors are common to many cultures and religions,
which is why they are so dangerous, and we must be there as soon as such an event occurs in order to nip them in the bud,
and we must show our love and solidarity toward people who feel threatened and...
we must express our common humanity.